.\" Manpage for reprounzip
.TH man 1 "4 November 2017" "1.0.10" "reprounzip\-docker man page"
.SH NAME
reprounzip\-docker \- Docker unpacker for reprounzip
.SH SYNOPSIS
reprounzip [\-v] docker [\-h] [\-\-version] [\-\-docker\-cmd DOCKER] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
reprounzip\-docker is the unpacker plugin for reprounzip that allows reproducing packed experiments on different environments by using a Docker container. You will need Docker to be installed on your machine to use it.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS General options:
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
show this help message and exit
.TP
.B \-\-version
show program's version number and exit
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
augments verbosity level
.TP
.B \-\-docker\-cmd DOCKER
changes the location or command used to run the Docker client. This option is split on spaces, for example you can use
\-\-docker\-cmd 'sudo /opt/bin/docker'

.SS Commands:
.TP
.BI setup " [\-\-base\-image IMAGE] [\-\-distribution DISTRIBUTION] [\-\-install\-pkgs] [\-\-image\-name NAME] [\-\-docker\-option OPTION] <package.rpz> <directory>"
Unpacks an experiment and sets it up for reproduction in the specified directory. A Docker image
.I NAME
will be created from the specified base
.I IMAGE
by adding the experiment's content on top of it. You can use \-\-docker\-option to pass additional options to docker build for example \-\-docker\-option=\-\-squash.
.TP
.BI run " [\-\-expose\-port PORT] [\-\-enable\-x11] [\-\-x11\-display DISPLAY] [\-\-tunneled\-x11] [\-d] [\-\-docker\-option OPTION] [\-\-pass\-env VAR] [\-\-set\-env VAR[=val]] <directory> [run] [\-\-cmdline ...]"
Runs an experiment that has been unpacked to a directory.
.TP
.BI upload " <directory> [localfile:experimentfile] [...]"
Replaces a file inside the experiment image with your own. This allows you to reproduce an experiment in its original environment, but with modified data or configuration. Running this command with only the
.I directory
will list all the named files that you can replace with this command.
.TP
.BI download " <directory> [experimentfile[:localfile]] [...]"
Download a file from the experiment container to your filesystem. If
.I localfile
is not specified, a file of the same name will be written in the current directory. Running this command with only the
.I directory
will list all the named files that you can download with this command.
.TP
.BI reset " <directory>"
Reset the experiment to the state it was when it was first unpacked. This undoes the effects of
.BR upload " and " run
commands on the experiment's environment.
.TP
.BI destroy " <directory>"
Removes an unpacked experiment directory, and the associated Docker images.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
The ReproZip website
https://www.reprozip.org/
.TP
ReproZip's GitHub repository
https://github.com/ViDA\-NYU/reprozip
.TP
The Docker website
https://www.docker.com/
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs on our mailing-list at reprozip@nyu.edu or on GitHub at https://github.com/VIDA\-NYU/reprozip/issues.
.SH AUTHOR
.RB "ReproZip is being developed at" " New York University" .

The team includes:
.RS
.nf
Remi Rampin
Fernando Chirigati
Vicky Rampin
Juliana Freire
Dennis Shasha
.fi
.RE
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2014 New York University.

.RB "Licensed under a" " BSD 3-Clause license." " See the LICENSE file included with the software for details."
