.\" Manpage for reprounzip
.\" Contact reprozip-dev@vgc.poly.edu to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "4 November 2017" "1.0.10" "reprounzip\-vagrant man page"
.SH NAME
reprounzip\-vagrant \- Vagrant unpacker for reprounzip
.SH SYNOPSIS
reprounzip [\-v] vagrant [\-h] [\-\-version] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
reprounzip\-vagrant is the unpacker plugin for reprounzip that allows reproducing packed experiments on different environments by using Vagrant to create a virtual machine. You will need Vagrant and VirtualBox to be installed on your machine to use it.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS General options:
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
show this help message and exit
.TP
.B \-\-version
show program's version number and exit
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
augments verbosity level

.SS Commands:
.TP
.BI setup " [\-\-dont\-use\-chroot] [\-\-dont\-bind\-magic\-dirs] [\-\-base\-image IMAGE] [\-\-distribution DISTRIBUTION] [\-\-memory MEMORY] [\-\-use\-gui] [\-\-expose\-port PORT] <package.rpz> <directory>"
Unpacks an experiment and sets it up for reproduction in the specified directory. A virtual machine will be created from the specified base
.I IMAGE
by adding the experiment's content on top of it. The default is to extract the experiment's files in a chroot inside the machine, and binding "magic dirs" into it
.RI ( /proc ", " /dev ", ...);"
this can be disabled using \-\-dont\-use\-chroot.
.TP
.BI run " [\-\-no\-stdin] [\-\-no\-pty] [\-\-expose\-port PORT] [\-\-enable\-x11] [\-\-x11\-display DISPLAY] [\-\-pass\-env VAR] [\-\-set\-env VAR[=val]] <directory> [run] [\-\-cmdline ...]"
Runs an experiment that has been unpacked to a directory.
.TP
.BI upload " <directory> [localfile:experimentfile] [...]"
Replaces a file inside the virtual machine with your own. This allows you to reproduce an experiment in its original environment, but with modified data or configuration. Running this command with only the
.I directory
will list all the named files that you can replace with this command.
.TP
.BI download " <directory> [experimentfile[:localfile]] [...]"
Download a file from the virtual machine to your filesystem. If
.I localfile
is not specified, a file of the same name will be written in the current directory. Running this command with only the
.I directory
will list all the named files that you can download with this command.
.TP
.BI destroy " <directory>"
Removes an unpacked experiment directory, and the associated virtual machine.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
The ReproZip website
https://www.reprozip.org/
.TP
ReproZip's GitHub repository
https://github.com/ViDA\-NYU/reprozip
.TP
The Vagrant website
https://www.vagrantup.com/
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs on our mailing-list at reprozip\-users@vgc.poly.edu or on GitHub at https://github.com/ViDA\-NYU/reprozip/issues.
.SH AUTHOR
.RB "ReproZip is being developed at" " New York University" .

The team includes:
.RS
.nf
Remi Rampin
Fernando Chirigati
Vicky Steeves
Juliana Freire
Dennis Shasha
.fi
.RE
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2014-2017 New York University.

.RB "Licensed under a" " BSD 3-Clause license." " See the LICENSE file included with the software for details."
