.\" Manpage for reprozip
.\" Contact dev@reprozip.org to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "4 November 2017" "1.0.11" "reprozip man page"
.SH NAME
reprozip \- the reproducibility packer
.SH SYNOPSIS
reprozip [\-h] [\-\-version] [\-d DIR] [\-\-dont\-identify\-packages]
         [\-\-dont\-find\-inputs\-outputs] [\-v] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
reprozip traces and packs an experiment or program into a reproducible package (.rpz file). Those packages can be archived, and reproduced later using reprounzip(1).
.SH OPTIONS
.SS General options:
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
show this help message and exit
.TP
.B \-\-version
show program's version number and exit
.TP
.B \-d DIR, \-\-dir DIR
where to store database and configuration file (default: ./.reprozip\-trace)
.TP
.B \-\-dont\-identify\-packages
do not try identify which package each file comes from
.TP
.B \-\-dont\-find\-inputs\-outputs
do not try to identify input and output files
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
augments verbosity level

.SS Commands:
.TP
.B usage_report
Enables or disables anonymous usage reports
.TP
.B trace
Runs the program and writes out database and configuration file
.TP
.B testrun
Runs the program and writes out the database contents
.TP
.B reset
Resets the configuration file
.TP
.B pack
Packs the experiment according to the current configuration
.TP
.B combine
Combine multiple traces into one (possibly as subsequent runs)
.SH EXIT STATUS
reprozip returns 1 in case of internal error, otherwise it returns the same result as the traced command.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.reprozip/log
Log file where reprozip and reprounzip write messages during execution. Useful to report issues to the developers, even if you were running without
.IR \-\-verbose .
.TP
.B .reprozip\-trace/trace.sqlite3, .reprozip\-trace/config.yml
When tracing, the trace database and configuration file get written to a directory
.I .reprozip\-trace
in the current directory. This location can be overridden with
.IR \-\-dir .
It can be useful to edit the configuration file before packing, to make sure no useless or private file is to be included in the package, and to correctly label input files, output files, and run steps.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B REPROZIP_USAGE_STATS
If this variable is set to
.I \*(lqoff\*(rq
then usage statistics will be completely disabled (won't be reported, recorded, and won't ask you about it).
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
Trace and pack a simple Python script:
.IP
.nf
.RB "$" " reprozip trace" " python foobar.py"
.RB "$" " reprozip pack" " foobar0.4\-python2.rpz"
.fi
.P
Use testrun to show the files used by a command:
.IP
.nf
.RB "$" " reprozip testrun" " /usr/bin/id"
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
The ReproZip website
https://www.reprozip.org/
.TP
ReproZip's GitHub repository
https://github.com/ViDA\-NYU/reprozip
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs on our mailing-list at users@reprozip.org or on GitHub at https://github.com/ViDA\-NYU/reprozip/issues.
.SH AUTHOR
.RB "ReproZip is being developed at" " New York University" .

The team includes:
.RS
.nf
Remi Rampin
Fernando Chirigati
Vicky Steeves
Juliana Freire
Dennis Shasha
.fi
.RE
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2014-2017 New York University.

.RB "Licensed under a" " BSD 3-Clause license." " See the LICENSE file included with the software for details."
