.\" Manpage for reprounzip
.\" Contact reprozip-dev@vgc.poly.edu to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "4 November 2017" "1.0.10" "reprouzip man page"
.SH NAME
reprounzip \- the reproducibility unpacker
.SH SYNOPSIS
reprounzip [\-h] [\-\-version] [\-v] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
reprounzip inspects or unpacks a reproducible experiment package (.rpz file) created by reprozip.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS General options:
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
show this help message and exit
.TP
.B \-\-version
show program's version number and exit
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
augments verbosity level

.SS Commands:
.TP
.B usage_report
Enables or disables anonymous usage reports
.TP
.B info
Prints out some information about a pack
.TP
.BI graph " <output.dot> [package.rpz]"
Generates a provenance graph from the trace data
.TP
.BI showfiles " <package>"
Prints out input and output file names
.TP
.B installpkgs " <package.rpz>"
Installs the required packages on this system
.TP
.BR directory " ..."
Unpacks the files in a directory and runs with PATH and LD_LIBRARY_PATH
.TP
.B chroot
Unpacks the files and run with chroot
.TP
.B docker
Runs the experiment in a Docker container
.TP
.B vagrant
Runs the experiment in a virtual machine created through Vagrant

.SS Unpacker commands:
Each unpacker (such as
.BR directory ", " chroot ", " docker ", or " vagrant )
has a similar set of commands, detailed below. Please refer to
.BR reprounzip\-\f(BIunpacker (1)
for detailed information about a specific unpacker.
.TP
.BI setup " <package.rpz> <directory>"
Unpacks an experiment and sets it up for reproduction in the specified directory.
.TP
.BI run " [\-\-cmdline ...] <directory> [run]"
Runs an experiment that has been unpacked to a directory.
.TP
.BI upload " <directory> [localfile:experimentfile] [...]"
Replaces a file inside the experiment with your own. This allows you to reproduce an experiment in its original environment, but with modified data or configuration. Running this command with only the
.I directory
will list all the named files that you can replace with this command.
.TP
.BI download " <directory> [experimentfile[:localfile]] [...]"
Download a file from the experiment container/virtual machine/directory to your filesystem. If
.I localfile
is not specified, a file of the same name will be written in the current directory. Running this command with only the
.I directory
will list all the named files that you can download with this command.
.TP
.BI destroy " <directory>"
Removes an unpacked experiment directory, and associated resources such as containers, virtual machines, or mount points.
.B Always use this command
to delete an unpacked experiment, otherwise resources might get left behind, or with chroot you might end up
.B deleting system files
through the mount point that has been created.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.reprozip/log
Log file where reprozip and reprounzip write messages during execution. Useful to report issues to the developers, even if you were running without
.IR \-\-verbose .
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B REPROZIP_USAGE_STATS
If this variable is set to
.I \*(lqoff\*(rq
then usage statistics will be completely disabled (won't be reported, recorded, and won't ask you about it).
.TP
.B REPROZIP_PARAMETERS
If this variable is set to a URL, it specifies an alternate location from which to download runtime parameters. If it is set to
.IR \*(lqoff\*(rq ,
nothing will be downloaded and the bundled parameters will be used instead.
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
Get information on a package:
.IP
.nf
.RB "$" " reprounzip \-v info" " foobar0.4\-python2.rpz"
\-\-\-\-\- Pack information \-\-\-\-\-
Compressed size: 1.64 MB
Unpacked size: 4.98 MB
[...]
.fi

.P
Unpack the experiment using
.BR reprounzip\-docker (1)
under
.IR /tmp :
.IP
.nf
.RB "$" " reprounzip docker setup" " foobar0.4\-python2.rpz /tmp/foobar\-docker"
.RB "$" " reprounzip docker run" " /tmp/foobar\-docker"
.RB "$" " reprounzip docker destroy" " /tmp/foobar\-docker"
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
The ReproZip website
https://www.reprozip.org/
.TP
ReproZip's GitHub repository
https://github.com/ViDA\-NYU/reprozip
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs on our mailing-list at reprozip\-users@vgc.poly.edu or on GitHub at https://github.com/ViDA\-NYU/reprozip/issues.
.SH AUTHOR
.RB "ReproZip is being developed at" " New York University" .

The team includes:
.RS
.nf
Remi Rampin
Fernando Chirigati
Vicky Steeves
Juliana Freire
Dennis Shasha
.fi
.RE
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2014-2017 New York University.

.RB "Licensed under a" " BSD 3-Clause license." " See the LICENSE file included with the software for details."
